You are stuck in the sea of unnecessary information.
Huge flows of information prevent you from making effective management decisions.
Then our course, Information Technology for You,
we focus on nuances of effective work with information,
which will allow you to make the right decisions quickly, efficiently and in time.
I'm Elena Burikova, a teacher of the Moscow Business School.
So, today's topic is the technology of effective work with information.
Slide number two.
In order to consider this program, we must clarify the importance of information for the manager,
discuss who the consumers of information are,
formulate an idea of the types of information,
and consider the information problems and ways of their solution.
Slide number three.
Why did the topic of the technology of work with information arise?
Because information processes are now greatly affecting the human community.
Humanity has felt a huge influence of information processes on the history of its development.
And the most important thing is that the information is becoming more and more.
And we cannot even predict the consequences of this,
that this information is becoming more and more.
How does it all affect a person?
Slide number four.
We will now deal with the concept of information.
In fact, it is so familiar to us, we use this term so often,
that we often do not think about what it means.
The term information comes from the Latin word,
which means exposition, exposition and awareness.
What is information in general?
There are several definitions in the literature.
In particular, information is information about objects, events, facts, processes and phenomena of the world around us.
That is, it is information.
The next definition.
The next definition is already taken from the course of computer science.
Slide number six.
In order to give a scientific definition of what information is,
we need to introduce three more concepts.
The object, the environment and the interaction.
The object is something whole that exists in space and time and is finished.
That is, the object is something holistic.
The environment is a multitude of other potential objects
that interest us in terms of their influence on the state of the selected object that we are considering.
And the interaction is a process of mutual change of these objects over time,
when they influence each other.
Slide number seven.
In nature there are two functional types of interaction.
This is the exchange of matter and energy.
These are fundamental types.
Why?
Because all other interactions are based on the exchange of matter or energy.
And here is the question, of course, the law of conservation of work.
That is, the energy that is exchanged by objects does not disappear anywhere.
When objects interact, a certain limited environment arises.
And in this environment, neither matter nor energy is lost.
If one object gave the matter and energy, then the other one changed, because it accepted.
And any interaction between objects, in the process of which one acquires,
and the other loses some substance, is called an informational interaction.
And this most transmitted substance is called information.
This is such a scientific definition of information from the science of informatics.
Two of the most common properties of information follow from this definition.
Information cannot exist outside the interaction of objects.
And information is not lost by any of the objects in the interaction process.
Slide number 9.
A number of terms that we will use in our course.
Information generalization.
This is the transformation of information from a small multitude of simple private events into information of a higher level.
In which these private events are included as elements.
Information exchange is carried out between people, objects, living nature, and technical devices.
And information processes are the processes of transmission, storage, processing and search of information.
So, based on this definition, information can be coordinated with our senses.
It can be visual, auditory, tactile, perceptual and kinesthetic.
This is when our movements, we move, and information is transmitted to the brain about how we move.
This is a general classification of information.
But we are interested in business information.
Business information is classified in the following ways.
This is verbal, non-verbal information.
Mimics, gestures, poses, distances are related to non-verbal.
Business information in this classification is all verbal.
Therefore, we will talk about business information only.
Slide number 10.
So, what is business information?
Business information is information about objects, events, facts, processes, and phenomena.
Which relates to the sphere of economic activity.
And is used to make decisions in the business system.
It is very important why we need this information.
We need information only for one thing.
In order to make decisions correctly.
So that the company can work effectively and achieve its goals.
What is business information?
Business information is professional knowledge that entrepreneurs and employees have.
Technological knowledge of the specialist.
Assumptions with a certain degree of probability about the subjects of interest.
And about the position that the company and its competitors occupy in the market and in the world.
All the information that relates to this area is business.
Slide number 12.
I will just comment on this and remind you.
That there are several types of resources in the organization.
These are information, time, financial, material, human and power.
And it is not in vain that information resources are put on the forefront.
Because they are really now moving forward.
And who owns information, he owns the world.
In order to be a leader, you must produce some new information.
You must be able to use the information that already exists.
Because only when you know what already exists, you can come up with something new.
And market leaders, they just lead in information.
What do they lead in?
Slide number 13.
Information today has become an economic resource and a commodity of primary necessity.
We have come to such a state that when information has become a commodity,
and a commodity of primary necessity, it is bought and sold.
And who buys the most effective information,
he can make the most effective decisions and, accordingly, be more effective.
Accordingly, all this is poured out into the financial component.
And it is all given to us by choice.
That is, having bought the necessary and effective information,
we thereby make investments in order to get the profit
exactly in the size we would like.
The most relevant information provision, in increasing degree,
will determine the effectiveness of the use of all the production potential.
So, we have already said about what an important place information takes.
And what does it take in terms of the company's profit?
And that is why we have such a term as competitive information advantage.
What is it?
In that, who manages to build a professional team with knowledge,
information of our employees is our competitive advantage.
And the more qualified your employees are,
the better they know, the better they know how to work with information,
the more effectively your company works.
This is the first.
The second competitive advantage, which can be,
it can be knowledge of geopolitical, foreign economic information,
which affects the success of your business.
I will give such an example, that is completely real.
The company that traded with the mineral water from Georgia,
in fact, after the event of such a foreign economic,
as a break in relations between Russia and Georgia,
this foreign economic event influenced the fact that the company
practically ceased to exist.
In principle, if the company's managers knew the information
that such a break could happen,
they could take some measures, rebuild their business,
expand the assortment line,
well, take some more actions to save the business.
And the lack of such information led to the fact that
a tangible share of the business was lost.
And there is another competitive advantage,
this is the ability to better, faster than others,
to understand, find, understand, evaluate,
rework and put into practice this publicly available information.
That is, we can, in principle, get additional profit
for better use of information.
Slide number 15.
Business information can be classified into the primary,
which we receive during the so-called field research marketing,
and the secondary is the data that we receive from internal and external sources
for the purposes of different research marketing.
That is, first we conduct research,
we get information, and all the rest of the information we get for,
well, again, it doesn't matter what we do it for,
what we work with information for,
this is the acceptance of effective management decisions.
We have another term that, so to speak,
has emerged recently in connection with the increased volume of information
that, so to speak, is boiling in the world community,
it is spinning, boiling, boiling over.
Information flows.
Indeed, when the information has already gained a large enough volume,
it has already begun to pour out on us.
Information flows are the means of transmitting information
that ensure the existence of the social system,
enterprises, institutions,
and within which the processes of transmission are moving.
This is information for the communication,
for the ensuring of communication of all links in the social system.
But if we take the corporate one,
then this is the ensuring of coordinated interaction of all the companies' units.
Slide number 17.
So, the result of the developed economic, legal, and organizational relations
that are formed within the company and the company with other companies,
with other structures,
is the informational support of organizations.
This is also a very important concept,
which, the more accurate, more effective the informational support of organizations,
I did not say more, but it should be enough,
necessary and enough,
that is, not much, not little, but exactly as much as necessary.
This is the informational support of organizations.
Then the company can really act effectively.
Slide number 17.
So, the informational support of organizations includes
informational resources of the company,
information service,
and the means of orientation in the market structure of business information.
Slide number 19.
Informational support is a combination of all the resources that provide the solution of the task.
This is monitoring, collection, processing of information, analysis,
moderation, forecasting, and so on.
That is, everything that we, all the resources, all the methods that we use,
in the aggregate of all this, this is the informational support.
Slide number 20.
Here are also statistical data,
normative and reference information,
all kinds of classification,
technical and economic information.
And the informational support is also a process of satisfying the needs of specific users in the information.
That is, if we take it in general,
the informational support is a complex of measures for the creation and functioning of the information system.
Here, in the informational support, there is business documentation,
its system of design, storage, search, encoding.
All this process, on the basis of which the managers make decisions,
which, as a result, turn into some ready-made documents.
And the informational support has two functions.
On the one hand, it is an economic resource of activity,
and on the other hand, it is the result of the functioning of the market,
business information at different levels of management.
That is, both the resource and the result.
On the one hand, the resource, on the other hand, the result.
What is the role of the informational support?
So, we have more or less figured out all these terms,
informational flows, informational support of the organization.
Let's deal with the tasks that the information performs.
The information helps us to navigate in space,
make decisions, perform various tasks,
enjoy interesting and fascinating information,
maintain a cooperative relationship between partners, users, clients,
produce high-quality informational products
that meet the needs of users,
and effectively integrate our information into the world community.
Or, on the contrary, to use the world experience in our own activities.
If we define who is a user, a consumer of information,
then we can refer to the legal references,
everything is clearly described there.
There is such a definition that a user of information is a subject
who refers to the information system for obtaining some necessary information.
In principle, he can not only refer to the information system, but also to the intermediary.
We can select the types of users.
In fact, they are clearly distinguished.
The user of information is, let's say,
we can take different levels, the global level.
The information is used by the global community,
it can be used at the level of internal political issues,
it can be used at the level of the corporation,
and it can be used by a physical person.
In general, it is divided into legal and private users.
In any case, these gradations can be classified.
When we talk about information exchange,
we have four basic elements.
The first is the sender, who collects and generates this information and transmits it.
The second is the message, this is the information coded with the help of some symbols.
The information transmission channels are the means used for its transmission.
And the receiver is the person for whom all this information is intended,
who receives it and then interprets it.
And here the stages of the process of information transmission are highlighted.
The first process is the birth of an idea,
how this information appears to me,
maybe I have a new idea that I want to convey,
or some message that I need to convey.
Then the second stage is the process of the transfer of information.
In general, the word is a very common method of encoding.
But if we take some technical means,
there are signs and symbols, and so on.
There are certain laws by which information is coded,
and it is transmitted in this way.
That is, it is coded for each communication channel.
Then the choice of communication channel, transmission.
Then there is decoding,
that is, when the receiver receives this information and begins to interpret it.
And the last stage is feedback.
Here you can see in more detail, slide number 28.
The feedback is a process of decoding.
The receiver receives the information,
and then the receiver interprets it.
Here you can see in more detail, slide number 28.
The receiver must imagine exactly
why he wants to convey this information,
in what form.
Encoding is the transformation of an idea into a message.
That is, the third stage is the transfer of information.
This is the most important thing here,
the choice of the channel.
As I said, each channel has its own coding rules.
Therefore, the encoding will depend on which channel we are going to transmit this information.
Decoding is exactly what the receiver received,
and he must decode all these symbols in his thoughts.
That is, he should, in theory, receive the information that we sent him.
And the more accurate, the more primary information coincides with the information received,
the more efficiently the communication channel was chosen,
the more efficiently the encoding was carried out.
And, accordingly, the last stage is feedback.
Because, as this information is lost while it is transmitted through communication channels,
our language is very multidimensional,
and the same word can have many meanings.
Therefore, it is very important how the receiver perceived this information,
how much of what he had in his mind
corresponds to what was sent to him initially.
What are the sources of information?
The sources of information that I will list now are, of course, only business information.
And, of course, they are not all.
These are some of the main sources of information that we are quite common.
Because, again, if we return to the first definition of information that we have analyzed,
that we have five senses, and, accordingly, we receive all this information with these senses,
then, of course, we are constantly in this information field,
and we continuously receive this information, filter it, analyze it,
starting from the information of what is happening to us inside,
ending with some lunar and solar eclipses,
which we think we do not feel in any way,
but in fact, it also affects us.
But if we cut off all possible other channels and take only business information,
then, accordingly, the most common sources of information are our media,
newspapers, magazines, books, radio, television.
We also get a lot of information from communication with other people,
so these are conferences, trainings, exhibitions, various professional communities.
In fact, there are just an infinite number of sources of information,
it is simply impossible to list them all.
In fact, it is surprising how much information is happening in things.
Sometimes a word that is said by chance,
gives you a push to update.
By the way, information, if we analyze it this way,
can also be divided into conscious and unconscious.
We have what we perceive as relevant and not relevant,
not updated information.
What we perceive, what we use all the time, actively,
is information at the level of consciousness.
And we also have a huge layer of information that is in the unconscious.
It is there, it is stored there.
Everything that we have ever heard, read somewhere, learned something,
it is always there.
But it is in such an unupdated state.
And there is literally one word that caught you,
and suddenly you have a huge layer of information.
Maybe it's the smell, you have another layer of information.
Therefore, in this regard, it is simply impossible to list the sources of information,
because almost all, I don't even know how it is,
but there are really a huge number of sources of information.
We have already talked about business.
Naturally, we cannot forget about the Internet.
Where can we go without it?
The 34th slide.
Naturally, now the Internet has become the most powerful resource for obtaining information.
What can you find there?
What information is contained there?
And the resources are completely limitless,
and the question is how to use it effectively.
And the sources of business information on the Internet are rating agencies,
websites of various investment companies,
websites of companies, market analysts, electronic libraries,
websites of universities, websites of state agencies,
Internet shops, websites of business literature publishers,
websites of periodic publications.
And the most interesting source of information is spam.
We cannot stand it at all, we do not like it, we clean it all the time.
In fact, it is such an unstructured, but sometimes very important information.
Sometimes you get some things as spam that you would never look for yourself.
But here it came and suddenly it became relevant to you.
So, those who use spam are basically guided by it.
The 35th slide.
We have clearly highlighted three categories.
State organizations, commercial structures and individuals.
These are the categories that consumers use information.
Slide number 36.
So, if we analyze the types of information,
we will go from the most general to the most private.
The most important information is the global one,
which is the property of all people in this world.
But, of course, it is quite dosed for each person.
Next, the internal political information.
This is information that concerns the life of our country.
Here we have a huge number of news that are constantly reported to us on the radio and TV.
There is also market information.
This is information that concerns the market in which a particular company interacts.
For example, the black metal market.
If a company deals in metals.
Or the household appliances market.
If a company deals in household appliances, and so on.
This is a specialized market where the company is an active subject.
Next, corporate information.
This is information within the company.
This is internal information for the company.
And the colloquial information.
It can be called personal.
This is the unofficial information.
It is the information that is used to spread rumors and gossip.
These are the types that are important.
You can also add personal information that each of us has about himself.
But we will not talk about personal information, because it is not business.
But colloquial information is business.
Why? Because it affects the efficiency of the company.
Therefore, we will consider it.
Inside the corporate information streams.
They can be horizontal.
This is the colloquial information that we talked about.
And we will return to it.
And vertical.
Which can be descending from the management to the employees.
And ascending from the employees to the management.
What is the difference between colloquial and horizontal information?
The corporate information streams are more effective in the course of communication.
Therefore, we will not touch them today.
And we will touch the colloquial information.
Because this is the information that is horizontal.
It must exist in any company.
Whether we want it or not.
And on the other hand, it can play a big role in the efficiency of the company.
What is this information?
This is information about all kinds of incidents.
About all kinds of misuse, violations, disciplinary actions.
Stealing in extreme manifestations.
About some personal serious problems of employees.
Which prevent them from effectively performing their work.
About some unethical actions.
About conflicts, intrigues.
About the level of information from employees.
This is also very important information.
Because the question is.
If a person does not have official information.
Then he will definitely fill this gap with some unofficial information.
Moreover, this unofficial information will be emotionally offensive.
And will grow like a snowflake.
Therefore, nature does not tolerate emptiness.
Everything that concerns information is also applicable to this law.
Where there is no official information, a colloquial one appears.
About the presence of informal leaders.
Whose goals are in line with the company's goals.
About the dissatisfaction of the staff.
If the dissatisfaction is still small.
We can work with him.
Take psychological measures.
But if we do not collect this information.
Then this process may be irreversible.
In the sense that we cannot guide them.
And about the true attitude of the employees.
To one or another phenomenon in the company.
All this information needs to be collected.
But generally speaking.
This is the responsibility zone of the staff management.
They must collect this information.
Analyze, sift it.
And issue ready-made recommendations.
Because if...
For example, keep your hand on your pulse.
If there are some displeasures.
It is always easier to lead the process.
And to lead it in the right direction.
Than to deal with the consequences.
With conflicts, with some incidents.
With some violations.
The tasks that solve the collection of such information.
Slide number 39.
These are the tasks that are solved by the method of collecting colloquial information.
This is a reduction of risks of adverse situations.
This is a forecast of the behavior of the employees in the team.
This is monitoring of some resistance.
To the changes that are made.
This is loyalty management.
This is preventing conflicts.
This is a reduction of risks of intentional damage.
It is also very important here that this is the destruction of the circle of failure.
Because it often undermines the efficiency of the organization.
Preventing all kinds of criminal agreements.
With clients, with partners.
In order to obtain personal benefits.
Accordingly, this is a declaration of openness of the company itself.
This is the creation and promotion of legends.
Which we need to create a corporate spirit.
These are the tasks we solve.
Slide number 40.
When we collect this information, we must clearly maintain the principle of receiving feedback.
This is necessarily anonymity.
If we collect information, we collect it in principle.
We do not need authors.
Who said that?
It is important for us to collect this array and analyze it.
It is not important for us to punish for this information.
For example, Petya, Vasya or someone else.
And in order for you to be given real feedback.
You need to clearly maintain the principle of anonymity.
Only those people need to pass on the received information.
Who need it for decisions.
And strictly adhere to the principle of confidentiality of information.
Information can be collected only in live communication.
The survey is conducted, of course.
But again, the percentage of truthfulness of this information.
When we do it by survey.
It is always questioned.
But if we communicate.
Then here, of course, you can already get more reliable information.
Employees who collect this information.
They must have a good level of professionalism.
In order to be able to talk to a person.
And you really get reliable information from him.
Not the one you want.
And the last thing.
That there must be a competent processing of the information.
And, accordingly, to evaluate its objectivity competently.
Slide number 41.
Now we move on to the types of information.
This classification by type is very conditional.
But in order not to get confused with you.
I introduce different classifications of information.
And so we have to introduce such a term as a type of information.
It can be divided, again, by the level of importance for the organization.
Purposefully distributed information.
This is the information that any organization distributes about itself.
With the help of PR, marketing, advertising.
This is the information that we purposefully let into the world.
And what we want it to know.
The next information is generally accessible.
This is the information that...
By the way, purposefully distributed is all the information that our company contains on the Internet.
That is, all kinds of sites.
The next level of information is generally accessible.
This is the information that we, on the one hand, seem to adhere to it.
And we don't want to spread it purposefully.
But we know for sure that people who are interested in our company know it for sure.
For example, any company knows a lot about its competitors.
This is the information that is distributed on the market among your competitors, partners, clients, and so on.
This is the information that we would like to hide, on the one hand.
But it still seeps into those people who are interested in its collection.
This is the generally accessible information.
And, accordingly, there is also confidential information.
This information is mutually acute.
On the one hand, it is an effective weapon.
On the other hand, it is our weak spot.
When we receive some information, we arm ourselves.
And when someone receives some information about us, he weakens our position.
Because this is our weak spot, our confidential information.
This is the information that we will carefully hide.
The information that we will take care of.
This is a very expensive task to keep confidential information.
What kind of information can be confidential?
Slide 42.
We will talk only about the confidential information.
Because everything is clear about the generally accessible and purposeful information.
But let's talk about the confidential information in more detail.
What kind of information is confidential?
This is all commercial information.
This is all production information.
Some know-how that allows you to earn money.
Which allows you to trade in the market or in some segment of the market.
Or in some product in a separate one.
And organizational and management information.
Confidential information can be divided into three large blocks.
Commercial information is the most production information.
It is clear that this is know-how of production.
Organizational and management information is also very clear.
This is all that concerns our business processes, our organization.
Therefore, let's talk about commercial information.
But here I want to make a philosophical digression.
Very often this happens in companies.
I have encountered this more than once.
And it always makes me smile.
When a company starts to present a large amount of information as confidential information,
you have no right to…
And it is especially funny when you call someone and ask,
what is the name of the head of the department?
And he says, this is confidential information.
But this is actually very funny.
Because then you open the website and everything is told there.
This is always a mismatch.
When you tell your employees that all the information they receive at work is confidential,
and they, God forbid, say something to someone,
and they also sign a document that they have no right to disseminate this information.
And when we open the company's website, everything is written there.
Everything, starting from the employees and owners of this company,
ending with the company's turnover and the planned turnover for the next year.
So, there are two questions here.
Either the information you have on the website is not reliable,
and then it is clear why it exists there.
Or, in general, there should be a ratio.
All the information on the website is already purposefully distributed.
And making it confidential is at least funny.
And at most, it is stupid.
Especially when the employees receive signatures.
It is clear that the confidential information should be preserved.
This is not yours, but a weak point of any company.
But we must clearly approach what kind of information is confidential.
Because we will hide it.
We will spend money and resources on it.
Therefore, it makes sense to clearly determine for yourself what kind of information is confidential.
Let's figure it out.
What kind of commercial information can be confidential?
In fact, not all of the listed information here will be confidential for each company.
Each company chooses for itself.
You can choose some of the listed information,
which will be really confidential for you.
And you will need to keep it a secret.
But this is knowledge and experience in the field of product and service implementation.
Our employees are the carriers of this information.
That's why we come back to the fact that there are no irreplaceable people,
but each employee is valuable.
Because when leaving, he takes away some of the information,
which is really confidential to some extent,
and in some cases is completely confidential.
Information and market conjecture, marketing research,
analysis of competitiveness of products and services,
information about consumers, customers, intermediaries,
banking and all kinds of relations, loans, debts, and so on.
This information is, of course, confidential.
Because it is clear that if a company has a lot of debts,
the degree of trust for it will sharply decrease.
And so on.
We need clients who trust us.
Knowledge of the most profitable forms of using securities,
all kinds of capital investments.
It is also clear that this is confidential information.
Accounting financial reports, salary information.
The salary information is also a subtle point.
It was especially relevant several years ago,
when all our salaries were in envelopes.
Companies tried to make sure that employees did not know each other's salaries.
In fact, this is almost impossible, because there is always a leak.
And we do not have the means to stop this leak.
Still, employees will know each other's salaries.
One way or another.
Assumed volumes of commercial activity,
materials of contracts,
list of clients and business correspondence.
Prices, estimates, forms and types of payments.
It is clear that this information is very difficult to keep as confidential.
It is more likely to be publicly available.
We also have one classification of information,
which we can also introduce.
I called it the information design.
The information can be structured or systematized,
and unstructured or unsystematized.
Let's see.
I showed you some ways to structure information.
There are many more.
The main ones are diagrams, models, graphs, tables, slides, statistics,
technical characteristics, list of rights, analytical notes, expertise.
This list can be continued.
Why?
Because when we want to make a decision based on information,
we must structure it.
It is clear.
Until we structure the information,
we will not be able to work with it.
It will become functional only when it is assigned, structured,
and then it becomes a tool.
But unstructured information.
These are all kinds of texts, discussions, chats, news.
It can be continued.
When we start to gather information,
it is unstructured information that requires reworking
and creating a structure.
What is the process of creation of information?
Since information is a formal knowledge,
another definition,
I liked it,
the process of creation of information is
the transformation of a single unproven knowledge
into a manifested knowledge,
into something that we can somehow fix.
And where do we fix this information?
Most often we fix any information in documents.
A document is a legal document
that serves as a written proof of a phenomenon.
Any object that fixes information,
any knowledge,
can be preserved.
This is a very important function of a document,
that it is preserved and can be referred to again.
Basically, information can be fixed
both verbally and inverbally,
with some icons, tables, symbols, and so on.
It is clear that now all ideas are the carriers of this information,
discs, cassettes,
all kinds of things,
no matter how we write it down now.
All technical means are developing rapidly
precisely because there is a lot of information,
and we need carriers of information
that can be less and less in volume,
but more and more information is being recorded.
In fact, this is the trend,
the development of all technical means.
Less volume, more information.
I think that to some extent
all this will develop
and in the end we will get a pill
that will record all the information from the Internet.
By the way, this is also a recent trend,
that in addition to the fact that we need more and more information
on a smaller carrier,
we also need access to information.
The faster, the more effective.
These services will develop
and will be in high demand.
To get information quickly and effectively,
and to transfer it with the smallest physical volume.
Slide 48.
Forms of documents.
Documents can be designed as text,
for example, books, magazines, manuscripts,
as graphic and illustrative drawings,
diagrams, plans, diagrams,
audiovisual recordings,
movies, diapositives.
I have already said that
technical means of recording information
are developing and will continue to develop.
Let's move on to the information problems
and ways of solving them.
Slide 49.
So, we talked about interference.
I said that at each stage of information transfer
we have a loss of credibility.
We started with the fact that when we encode information,
we lose a piece of it,
because we need to cover the information
in some words, symbols or something else.
And we don't always do it effectively,
that is, to the full extent.
What we want to convey,
we can convey to a certain extent of credibility.
Someone better, for example,
uses the word cat, more vocabulary,
those are more credible in transferring information.
If a person does not have a very large vocabulary,
or does not know some terms,
naturally, he will do worse.
Next, there is a transfer of information
through communication channels.
Each communication channel has its own rules
by which we can encode this information.
And again, there is a moment
that if I know these rules well,
I know well, I will lose less credibility of information.
If I don't know the rules very well,
I can lose this information at this stage.
Next, there is decoding of information.
Again, a person begins to decode information
by passing it through his own filters.
And the filters start from the settings
and end with some purely physical effects on him.
If, for example, he does it in a calm environment,
then he perceives the information more reliably.
If his emotional level is higher,
then it is also a filter.
There are a lot of filters here,
but they are mostly understood in the course of communication,
effective communication.
There is more information about filters.
The thing is that there is a difference between noise and interference.
It is present at every stage of information processing.
Since we are talking about the topic of information processing technology,
we will be the addressees.
We are the ones who receive information.
How to make our work with information more effective?
Slide 50.
So, we will not talk about the single information we receive
and its effectiveness.
We can talk about information flows.
Why?
Because the big problem of modernity
is the huge amount of information.
A huge amount of information is being thrown at us.
I want to make a lyrical digression.
We can classify information in this way.
We can classify it in a negative and positive way.
This is very clearly highlighted in modern society.
It becomes a big problem.
Why?
Because a person has a threshold of sensitivity.
Any of us has it.
When too much negative information comes through this threshold,
we cannot cope with it psychologically.
This negative information starts to affect us negatively.
We get a lot of stress from it.
In modern society, when there are big disadvantages,
there are big advantages.
And vice versa.
When there are big advantages, there are always big limitations.
I have already said that information is a powerful weapon.
On the other hand, it is a weak point of any person.
If there is a lot of information about me,
I do not know how to control it.
How to control this process?
The same is true of the amount of information we receive from outside.
On the one hand, this is a great benefit,
because it allows us to navigate in time and space,
to make effective decisions,
because we receive the right amount of information.
On the other hand, information affects us.
If we receive negative information,
it affects us in a destructive way.
It drives us into stress.
The amount of information that we receive is very stressful.
The human brain has the ultimate ability to digest information.
Psychologists recommend one thing.
To protect yourself from negative information.
Do not listen to the radio, do not watch TV,
do not read the newspaper before lunch.
Do you remember the story of the dog's heart?
Do not read the Soviet newspapers before lunch.
And there are no other newspapers.
So, do not read the newspaper at all.
Studies have shown that students in England
were affected by the amount of negative information
that we receive every day from the news.
They really got sick from this information.
Therefore, the importance of information is now very...
By the way, we do not notice this.
The biggest drawback is that we do not notice it.
For us, this huge flow of information,
which we pass through ourselves all the time,
is a norm.
We work with it.
We are forced to receive a lot of information
in order to make effective decisions.
But we do not realize that this is a really stress-generating factor.
And if there is an opportunity,
it is better to dose the flow of information
that comes to you from the outside
and which you have to process.
But this is a lyrical retreat.
Unfortunately, we will not get rid of negative information at all.
But we must understand that positive information
is much more important for us than negative.
We must try to compensate for the negative with positive.
So, let's get back to our business life,
to our modern information flows.
There are several phenomena of modern information flows.
In particular, progress in the field of information production
leads to a decrease in the general level of information.
And it generates new types of network services.
What does this mean?
Look, there is a lot of information.
The growth is rapid and sharp.
But we have less information.
Why?
Because our body is protected.
We have more filters.
We just let some information pass by our ears
and do not react to it in any way.
And by the way, at this moment we can miss some very important information.
Such an disproportionate growth of unstructured information
leads to its poor structuring.
What is unstructured information?
This is information that cannot be a tool.
It cannot be.
It needs to be structured.
It is necessary to spend a large amount of effort
to structure this unstructured information.
A lot of parasite information appears.
We do not need it at all.
But we let it in and process it.
And it is an obstacle for us.
Next.
Disagreement with the formal information is a real necessity.
But to choose what we really need from this sea of information
is also a separate job that requires resources.
And there is also duplication of information.
The same message is published in different places.
But we need to open it and see.
I have already read it.
It is also a waste of time and resources.
This is the first phenomenon.
Slide number 51.
The second phenomenon.
New network services, sometimes with a thousand times less sources,
solve the problem of consumers much more effectively.
Why?
Large network search systems have come to the conclusion
that network integration of news is necessary.
They have concluded agreements with the largest information agencies
and began to provide news information to these agencies online.
You do not need to buy newspapers.
You can open the Internet and read all the news.
But what happens here?
On the one hand, it seems to be a plus.
And on the other hand, it turns out to be a one-sided coverage of news.
And here you need to choose all the time
between the reliability of the information,
its objectivity and its volume.
It is proportional.
The less we cover the sources, the more subjectivity increases.
The next phenomenon.
Slide number 52.
The existing today mechanism of news integration
is effective only when there is an information service within the company.
What is this phenomenon?
This is a phenomenon that there is a lot of information.
In order to get reliable, verified,
analytically structured information,
we need a service in the company that will do this.
We need employees who will sit and
from this huge stream of information
to make the necessary decision for us.
Because here, again,
we have this ratio of volume of information
and level of reliability.
When we talk about unstructured information,
if we reduce the volume,
we will suffer from unreliability.
Again, like any way out of any situation,
here the way out is only in the optimal combination of volume and reliability.
It makes sense not to read the sources nearby,
but to read the sources that take the opposite positions.
Then this picture may be more objective.
The next phenomenon.
The popular content analysis today does not have a definite interpretation.
What does this mean for us?
The concept of content analysis came from psychology.
And sociology still does not have a definite definition,
it is not formalized.
Therefore, everyone talks about their own content analysis.
Someone in this concept invests completely different mechanisms, different methods.
Accordingly, one content analysis will not be connected with another.
Every time we will have to invent a bicycle.
Because there is still no single understanding of what a single mechanism is.
So, what can we do?
What are the effective technologies of work
with a growing flow of unstructured text information?
When we talk about searching for information on the Internet
with large information arrays,
we have two criteria.
The first criterion is the size of the database,
the number of sites it attracted.
And, accordingly, the larger the database,
the more sites the search engine knows.
And the more accurate the search.
And the second criterion is the information of the given links.
That is, not only to attract many sites,
but also the information contained in these links should be useful to you.
So, what are the main criteria we should consider
when we search and sort documents from sites?
First, the number of searchable words in the text,
the distance between these words in the text,
the place in the text where these words are found in the title, in the text itself,
the appearance of the font used,
and the number of links from the Internet to this document.
These are the criteria that will help us sort documents.
When we talk about who needs information in the company,
it is difficult to select an employee
who would never use some external, unstructured information.
I think that every employee,
well, we will not take such service staff as a cleaner,
we take the manager's position and higher,
then, of course, all these positions use unstructured information from the Internet
for their goals, for making their decisions,
for analyzing the existing situation, and so on.
But here are some examples of such specialists.
For security services, it is especially relevant
to analyze the reliability of new partners and the environment,
monitoring the state of permanent partners and their projects,
assessment and forecast of the company's development,
risk assessment and forecast.
Here is a very important remark.
Why is it important for security services to be able to use all this unstructured information?
Because, as you know, about 30% of confidential and about 10% of very confidential,
completely secret information is contained in open sources.
As an example, we can cite the book by Viktor Suvorov,
which described the peculiarities of Stalin's policy,
based only on newspaper sources.
He specifically wrote in the preface that he did not use any secret document,
he used only the information that was written in Soviet newspapers.
And based on this, he made his conclusions.
Here you can argue about the legitimacy of these conclusions or not,
but the fact is that this book is a very good illustration,
a confirmation that completely secret information is also contained in open sources.
Therefore, it is very important for your security service to be able to work with information,
to be able to predict, analyze, to identify the main thing
and pay attention to the nuances that will help to predict events with the greatest probability.
Who else is it important for?
I will repeat that it is important for everyone to work with information.
Here is an example for the department of strategic planning and management.
It is important to analyze the activities of the enterprise, macroeconomic analysis,
and the predicted state of the country.
It is very important here, because, as we did not want,
but all internal political events, even external political events,
they sometimes have a great impact on the life of the company,
and its survivability in certain conditions.
And since competent analysts who deal with strategic management,
they must, based on the information they receive, build forecasts,
this is their main function,
then they must understand the tendencies of development in the geopolitical situation,
and how it can affect the life of a particular company.
Next, analysis of the market segment, monitoring of competitors is an important tool.
Expansion and diversification of business influence,
development of optimal marketing and business strategies.
This is the information, unstructured stream of information,
which they receive from all sorts of sources, will allow them to solve such tasks.
So, now we have come to the topic of the main information problems
that are facing the heads of Russian enterprises today.
Of course, now there is such a stage in the development of our Russian business,
when the companies that have survived are forced to pay attention to themselves,
and are forced to establish their business processes.
And when we talk about business processes,
there is also an effective work with information.
What is a business process?
It is just the building of channels, effective transmission of information,
and, accordingly, obtaining and processing of external information.
This is also very important, because such a stage has come,
that companies have grown up, enlarged, and it is necessary to postpone all these processes.
Unpostponability and coordination of business processes
greatly affects the efficiency of management.
Now, in companies, in many companies,
these business processes are formed spontaneously,
unconsciously and uncontrollably.
And now, for many companies, the moment has come
when all this needs to be organized, structured,
so that the management can really manage the information flows
both inside and outside the company.
Therefore, the lack of coordination and coordination of business processes
are big informational problems for enterprises.
The second problem is the inability to obtain timely,
sufficiently argumented information to make a management decision.
This problem has been and will be.
Because, of course, we have three criteria.
The first is timeliness, quality and completeness.
This also applies to information.
We need to get quality information, that is, reliable.
The quality of information is determined by reliability.
We need volume.
Remember, I said that the volume of information should be sufficient.
There should be neither more nor less information,
but exactly enough.
And, accordingly, timeliness.
That is, the information is needed at the moment when it is needed,
not a minute later.
Because you need to make the appropriate decision.
And therefore, this problem is actually being fought over.
How to organize this whole process,
all these information flows,
so that they are really of the right quality,
in the right volume and at the right time.
The next problem is the lack or insufficient effectiveness
of horizontal connections between units,
subsidiary structures and branches.
This is also understandable.
This is also a problem when we have,
as soon as we have these information flows
between units, branches, subsidiary structures,
the coordination of their work is immediately violated,
and, accordingly, the effectiveness of making and implementing
management decisions.
Fourth.
The lack of a single monitoring system of the enterprise's activities.
This is a problem for many enterprises.
Even when there is a marketing department,
it seems to monitor the enterprise's activities.
But here it is very important to have a single system
and to have very well-developed criteria.
But for many enterprises this is a problem.
And the ineffectiveness of using the received information,
the mass of this information that is accumulated in all companies.
The difficulty of access to archives, for example,
is also a big problem for many enterprises,
when there is no way to quickly, effectively and quickly
get the necessary information about past actions.
This is also a big problem for many enterprises.
Slide 60.
The lack of reliability and compliance with business processes
and the related management problems.
Competition has grown on one side,
there are not enough coercive personnel on the other side,
and the company solved its problems as they were.
As business developed, they solved it as best they could,
without paying attention to the correctness of business processes.
And now it is time to use the information resource as it should be.
And this is very often the reorganization of the company's business.
For many companies this is a stumbling block
and a narrow place that slows down the further development of the business.
The inability to get sufficient argumentative information
for making financial decisions.
It is a very difficult task to solve without using any information systems.
But if this is introduced,
full control over all business processes in the company,
over all information processes in the company,
then this will also play a role in increasing efficiency.
But what is important here?
The lack of horizontal connections between subsidiaries, subsidiary companies and branches.
It is very important that the information does not lose its reliability.
Because when information from different sources or from one source
comes to the other, excluding each other,
it is very difficult to navigate in this flow.
The information should be well-established here.
The channel of information should be very well established.
Both direct information and feedback.
And the less reliability is lost here,
the more effective the whole company will work.
The lack of a single system of constant monitoring.
What is here?
The object of monitoring should be such moments as finances,
our financial flow should be constantly monitored,
where the money comes from,
what resources and who is in charge.
Further, the system of purchases and sales, production,
the results of the activities of individual employees or branches.
Those companies that control these processes,
they have their advantages.
First, budgeting is more competently arranged,
production volumes are regulated,
there is no overproduction,
warehouses are more effectively used, and so on.
The system of constant monitoring is also one of the resources
for increasing the efficiency of the enterprise.
Inefficiency is used on accumulated information.
This is often found in situations
when information comes either not in time or not reliably.
And very often there is also that in companies,
that there is no single client base.
Now there are fewer and fewer such companies.
But it is very important when we have an archive of our relations with clients.
And we can track the whole history of relations.
When we do not have such information,
it also affects the efficiency of the business.
What methods do we have to somehow deal with
this huge volume of unstructured information?
Slide number 65 is the content analysis method.
This is exactly the method that allows us
to work most effectively with our information flows,
and unstructured information.
I have already said that when we talked about the phenomenon
of modern states,
I said that the content analysis method is not yet formalized,
not yet defined, so it has a lot of definitions.
On the one hand, this is a method of objective,
qualitative systematic study of the content of the means of communication.
On the other hand, this is a systematic numerical processing,
assessment and interpretation of the form and content of the information source.
On the third hand, this is a qualitative number of methods of working with documents
that are characterized by the effectiveness of conclusions and the strictness of the procedure.
And the next thing is that this is a research technique
for obtaining results by analyzing the content of the text,
and the state and properties of social reality.
That is, there are a lot of definitions.
But in any case, the content analysis method
consists of finding certain substantive concepts in the text,
which are the units of analysis,
and identifying the frequency of meeting
in accordance with the content of the entire document.
That is, we look for how many times a particular word is found in this text
and compare it with the content of the entire document.
The content analysis method can be quantitative and qualitative.
The quantity of content analysis is the frequency of appearance in documents
of certain characteristics of content.
Three stages of this content analysis are highlighted.
First, the units of analysis are highlighted
and translated into the type acceptable for processing.
Of course, now it's all done electronically.
That is, it is very important for us to highlight the criteria for the units of analysis.
What will we have, on what basis will we analyze the document.
Next, the second stage is the calculation of the frequency of the units of analysis
using various mathematical devices
to identify the interconnection between them.
What do we do?
Here we already apply mathematical formulas and process them mathematically.
Now it's all done on computers.
We process and get certain quantitative conclusions.
The third stage is the interpretation of the results.
That is, this is what we will work with.
So, the stages of qualitative content analysis.
They are about the same as quantitative.
We are not looking at statistical data, but at the content.
The first stage is the combination of a large amount of text information
with the final number of integrated blocks of text units,
which will be processed in the future.
That is, we also highlight this very unit of analysis.
Then we also look at the interconnection between these units in the text.
Then we form conclusions in communication, compare.
This is also the third stage of the interpretation of information.
Now, in addition to content analysis, the next step,
the next stage of content analysis is the content monitoring of information flows.
Here they try to combine both qualitative and quantitative.
It turns out that content monitoring is a substantive analysis of information flows
in order to obtain the necessary qualitative and quantitative segments,
which are constantly produced over a certain and finite period of time.
Monitoring is clear.
We do content analysis more than once, but we do it constantly.
We monitor, compare with previous results
and thus build some trends.
What else can we see in the modern stage of our business development
and information applied to business?
The situation of rapid growth in the pace of information production has caused a number of problems.
The first problem is the disproportionate growth of information noise
due to the weak structure of information.
This has caused a lot of unnecessary information,
a lot of interference.
When we look for the right information,
we are like a person who washes gold.
We start to wash the empty rock
and look for the grains of this gold information for ourselves.
There is a lot of noise that we have to overcome.
The second difficulty is the emergence of parasitic information.
The third difficulty is the lack of formal information
that is really in demand from consumers.
There is information,
we have typed the word that interests us,
and we get a lot of formal information,
which is not formally useful.
And, accordingly, the duplication of information.
It is a reprint of the same information in different publications.
In order to deal with this phenomenon,
people who provide information streams
have invented thematic navigators.
They allow you to move around related thematic categories,
and each of them can include a large number of documents
close to the content.
The best of these navigators allows you to find a whole range of topics
that are relevant to the documents you are interested in,
and then move around the topics.
That is, the navigators are not only looking for one topic,
but they are looking for the words you have stated in different topics,
in different thematic blocks.
That is, the machine thinks practically for a person.
It thinks about what topics can be close,
nearby, where we can also find the information we need.
So far, there are two categories of thematic navigators.
The first category has a rigid structure.
And here the hierarchy of categories is used,
which reflects the general system of existing knowledge of the reeds.
Here it is very rigid.
We have introduced one word, a very rigid hierarchical structure,
which gives us information.
The second category of navigators is created specifically,
it is very flexible, but at the same time it is very expensive,
because it is created exclusively
for a certain subject area.
This is number 73.
So, we talked about the ways
of detecting this information,
unstructured,
how we can, where we can find it,
that is, how we can provide for ourselves
this incoming stream of information
in order to further structure it.
And the last topic we will discuss today
is how an analytical note is prepared.
It turns out that we found where to get this information,
we provided ourselves with this stream,
and then, in the end, we need this information
not just to have it,
we need it for purely practical purposes,
so that we can use this information
to make decisions.
Therefore, as a rule,
if we are really engaged in some kind of
systematization of information,
in the search for some information we need,
then all this is poured into an analytical note.
Otherwise, it is pointless.
If we do not do this,
if we do not record this information,
our work that we have done,
if we do not record it on paper in the form of documents,
then this work turns out to be pointless.
As a rule, such a search ends up with a certain review,
for example, an analytical note.
There are stages of work
that allow us to do this effectively.
The first is the search.
We must, conditionally speaking,
collect this amount of information,
which we will then systematize and structure.
I must say, to be honest,
any topics, any training,
they are prepared according to this scheme.
We do not get an analytical note,
but we get some kind of training program.
But the scheme is the same,
because it is very similar to
some scientific research.
On the other hand,
if we use an analytical device,
any analytical note,
in terms of structure, content and labor costs,
is very similar to some scientific work.
The only thing is that there is no practical part,
because it is a theoretical information analysis.
So, what are the stages?
The first stage is the search.
Naturally, we first look for it,
then we select it,
then we analyze what we found and collected,
then we systematize it,
and then we get the structure,
more or less logical structure,
and after that we prepare the reference.
At the search stage, what do we do?
Our task is to correctly identify the sources of information.
This is a very important point,
where we will get the information.
Next, we select the invoice.
What is an invoice?
An invoice is a fact.
What is very important here?
It is important that we rely on facts,
and facts are called the objective reality,
which already exists,
which cannot be refuted.
Why?
Because there is a assumption in opposition to facts.
We have assumptions and facts.
We assume that an event can occur in one way or another.
And the fact is already a real action,
an event that has already happened.
Therefore, we can only rely on facts.
Assumptions require verification by facts.
Facts are divided into empirical,
which are extracted directly from the experiment,
into scientific,
which are obtained by means of objective data,
into departmental,
which are composed of various institutions and institutions.
There are also statistical facts.
These are the ones that describe,
or rather summarize,
many, many, many different events that have already happened.
And, of course, from this category of facts,
the most reliable are statistical facts.
Because they are...
Although, if we take into account what statistics we have,
in theory, the most reliable should be statistical data.
Or empirical data, too.
Why? Because empirical data is something that is extracted directly from the experiment.
But we should understand that any scientific facts,
all of them have...
When someone exposes them,
he still brings his subjective opinion,
subjective perspective.
He looks at these facts from his point of view,
and he exposes them from his position,
based on his system of values.
It is clear that
we have a multifaceted phenomenon,
and we can describe the same phenomenon in a completely different way.
And from different points of view,
and from different emotional components.
But here comes to mind the anecdote about the elephant.
When three blind people were led to the elephant,
one touched the leg,
the other the tail,
and when they started to discuss what an elephant is,
one said that an elephant is a big pole,
the third said that it is a small cord,
and the fourth said that it is a...
well, a rump, right?
And they were all right on the one hand,
and wrong on the other,
because an elephant is something more holistic.
The same thing happens with our facts.
In any case,
we need to understand that
we need to make corrections to subjectivity
when we work with facts.
In any case, facts are an objective reality for us.
The next one is selection.
When we talk about selection,
we should keep the framework of our task.
The information we receive should correspond to the interests and levels of preparation of the user.
What does it mean?
It means that each of us,
due to our preparation,
can perceive or not perceive a particular piece of information.
In general, if a person has never been engaged in programming,
then everything that concerns the computer,
he will perceive at the same level.
And if he starts reporting something at the professional level,
he will not understand anything
and will not be able to make any decisions based on this information.
Therefore, when we say that
a certain category of consumers will read this analytical note,
we should focus on how they will be able to understand it.
It is very important, of course,
when we talk about selection,
to set priorities.
It is very important to select the main thing,
what will really affect the decision-making.
And the facts are thrown out gradually.
Facts are filtered by a selective method.
The unnecessary is thrown away, and the useful is left.
Only the information that contributes to the solution of the tasks is valuable.
Then the filtered material is grouped and systematized.
This is where the selection stage ends.
We come to the understanding of the material.
The first thing we do is to make a draft version.
We write, write, write, write,
until we can do nothing, we do not question anything.
We just put it out.
We put out a stream of consciousness,
so as not to interfere with our associative series.
Because this associative series can lead us to some original, non-standard solution.
Then the next stage is the preliminary version of the final document,
already with compliance with all the requirements
that are defined for such a type of document.
Then, at the stage of systematization of the original information,
we must have a clearly formulated goal.
Why are we doing this at all?
And to compare it with this goal.
To compare all the illustrations, all the examples,
and use arguments.
Arguments can be based only on facts.
We provide arguments and illustrations when we systematize our information.
We provide arguments based on facts, which are already generally recognized.
And here it is very important not to overdo it with arguments.
That is, to use them exactly to prove your idea.
Slide 78.
And then we develop a behavior algorithm.
Here we just draw up our document,
because direct dependence on the adoption of a timely and qualitative solution
depends on the clarity and readability of our document.
How the information is presented.
The information must be presented in a business style.
A business style is a logical, linguistic structure.
It is an external, devoid of emotional, expressive color.
That is, the basis of a business style is a book-and-letter vocabulary,
which is widely used in ready-made language formulas and terms.
Why?
Because the use of terms, when they are designed for a prepared reader,
greatly reduces the time, because we know the terms in the formulation,
and we can talk about everything in one language.
Next, after the document is compiled, we must edit it
so that it is really a ready-made document.
Since we put a signature under it, we must know what we sign for,
we must first edit it.
First, we read the text in one breath from A to Z
in order to understand the overall impression of the document.
Then we read and see how the linguistic and stylistic structure
corresponds to the business style.
Then we begin to shorten, eliminate general places, lengths,
not very successful examples, unnecessary arguments.